# Why does my computer slow down if I open a big file? Video• . Duration: 2 minutes 2 min

[Original lesson](https://www.coursera.org/learn/uol-how-computers-work/lecture/hUF2Y/why-does-my-computer-slow-down-if-i-open-a-big-file)

Here is a summary of the text in 15 sentences, preserving key information, formulae, and technical details:

The main memory is much faster than hard disks, which can slow down the loading of large files into an application. When a large file is loaded, it can freeze the application due to the slower speed of hard disks compared to main memory. However, this is not the only reason for slowing down after loading a large file; even if the file's loaded, the operating system may still be slowed down by other applications or processes using up all available main memory. When main memory becomes full, virtual memory is used to save some of the data to hard disk storage in an area called virtual memory. Virtual memory tries to minimize the amount of data stored in it that would otherwise be needed immediately. However, hard disks and virtual memory are much slower than real memory, which can slow down applications when using files stored in virtual memory. Upgrading memory is generally cheaper and easier than upgrading processors, making it a more cost-effective solution for slowing down issues caused by insufficient main memory. The operating system uses algorithms to decide what data should be stored in virtual memory, prioritizing the most critical or frequently used data over others. When an application runs out of main memory, it can switch between different applications and processes to find available space before loading a new file into memory. However, if the load is too large, the operating system may not have enough time to process the switch before loading the new file into virtual memory. If this happens repeatedly, it can cause an application or entire system to freeze due to the slow speed of hard disks and virtual memory. This slowdown can be mistaken for a processor problem but is often caused by insufficient main memory. The amount of data that needs to be stored in virtual memory depends on various factors such as the size of the file being loaded, how much RAM is available, and other processes competing for resources.

